Here we are, immersed in what can only be called an extinct bank vault, so this is fantastic.
It looks like a prison in a bank. Harmontown is now in Session Road Island.
Would you please welcome to the stage the mayor of Harmontown, Dan Harmon.
Road Island! Did you want more music? No, no, no. That was the end of the song. Road Island.
Some facts about Rhode Island, Jeff. Well, you just told me you didn't Wikipedia them. The typewriter was invented here? That's not true.
It is the smallest state per capita. It is only 175 yards across. It is between the lower curve of the Tangiers River and the Colorado Peninsula.
It is the most haunted state. Are there any famous ghosts? There are several famous ghosts.
King Tut. Haunt is rumored to haunt the Biltmore, which is just down the street. Charles Dickens apparently roams the old First Street promenade.
Still warning children about the events of Halloween 1912. And also Connecticut haunts Rhode Island. Why is that? Just jealousy.
Ever since Rhode Island was invented, Connecticut became yesterday's news. It suffered a sort of public relations death. It felt unjustified.
If you still listen very quietly, you can still hear Connecticut weeping in the winds of the Rhode Island expressway.
All right, I didn't do any research. I figured it was a small state we could get away with one night of just hanging out. A lot of you probably came here because we begged you to at the Boston show.
And still others of you who weren't begged probably came in. What, Rhode Island's like 30 feet across? What are the odds that anyone's actually from within the boundaries of the state? Who do we have here that's actually a Rhode Islander?
Clap. Don't raise your hands. Well, yeah, actually a shit ton of people. The entire population of Rhode Island. How big is Rhode Island? What's the actual...
35 by 40 miles. 35 by 40 miles? I would have no idea if that was a joke or not. You could tell me 350 miles. I don't have any sense of the scale. I know that when you look at it on the Internet, it's one of the few states in the U.S. where they have to have that little magnifying glass thing come up.
They can't just put the red dot on it that it has to have a little inset where they're like, it's over here. I mean, I think that's nothing to be ashamed of. I don't know what having a big state gets you. I think that's stupid.
It kind of defeats the purpose of being a state. Like, how are you supposed to make all those people happy? What kind of laws are you going to pass? Pass out law on Rhode Island, you know that it's like firmly set because it's like only a couple people like said this. No, no smoking.
For real. Me, Carl and Dave said so.
Now, there's a reason, Dan, that I didn't Wikipedia Rhode Island today because he was very busy. Oh, yeah, I turned in my CBS script for today.
I've been kind of, you've probably sensed in the previous two or episodes that I've been a little preoccupied. I wasn't really letting my hair down that much. It was because I had something, I had that on my mind.
And now I'm done. Now I'm free clear.
You've got like 48 hours to write a whole other script, don't you?
Yeah, yeah, for Fox, yeah. But that's going to be the next community. That's not going to be a problem. That's fine. That's going to come easy.
The CBS thing was like rolling a brick up a hill because it's like, Jesus Christ, why is everything double spaced? That's how they like it. They like it double spaced. They like more cameras and more pages over there.
It's not easy. And you have to write in, did you know this when you write a multi-camera script, you have to write in where the people laugh?
Did you know that? No, you don't. No, I'm kidding. That would be amazing. People laugh and then people chuckle and people go, ooh.
Can we do a reading of the script tonight?
I don't know. I don't think we're allowed to. That's ridiculous. They paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for it. I can't read it.
$10 worth? Yeah. Give us like one couplet.
I did some tasty fade-ins. That's $10 worth of...
I used the letter Q quite a bit, ways you might not expect. I'm legally liable now. The letter Q is used eight times in the script. You know too much.
It's about a guy and his daughter. You can't really get deeper than that in a multi-camera sitcom. It's about a guy and his daughter. It's about relationships, Jeff.
Multi-camera sitcoms are not a baser art form. In fact, they are in television terms more classic, obviously. We started with the honeymooners when we started making sitcoms.
We started with the idea that these were plays that were adapted for larger audiences, but at their heart were a couple hundred people watching something reacting together as human beings.
They may seem to our new cinematic savvy eyes as being somehow more primitive or cheesy or watered down or silly, but I think that's just because a lot of them are written very poorly.
I think that I turned in one that's superior to everything on television. I think I'm going to revitalize the whole format. I think people are going to be going,
Why? Why? Why? Why? Why doesn't everyone laugh at everything all the time when you're watching it? It's going to bury the voice and American Idol and Major League Baseball.
Everyone's going to start watching shows about guys in an apartment that can't make the rent and have a dog forever.
I think this is a nice-looking place. Dave and Corey, that's their names, right? The guys that run the place? Dave and Corey? Am I getting that right?
Dave and Corey are too modest to call out, yes. They were interior design guys before they opened this club. That's not a joke.
They told me, and their Wi-Fi password is DaveCore2630. Why would you tell them that?
Well, because if anyone wants to get on the Wi-Fi...
Oh, I see, okay. Just fragment this audience to pieces. We can probably check on our Facebooks.
And I said, are you guys 26 and 30 years old? Because I know my passwords often have my ages attached to them. When the thing says you have to have a number, I just stick my age on there.
So over the year, I'm like, God damn it. Was I 37 or 38 when I started getting into feet? When I went through my latex phase.
How many porn passwords did you think you have? It's impossible, Jeff. An impossible calculation.
Fortunately, I lose my credit cards enough that they expire by virtue of... I just get a lot of emails going, we tried to bill your credit card, yeah, fuck you.
That's what you get for your sneaky ways of capitalizing on people in a moment of weakness.
I'm not only a porn addict, I'm also a drunk, so I lost my wallet again. So I jerked off only as much as I needed to.
But no, Dave and Corey are not 26 and 30, but that's how old they were when they started their first business.
I thought that was cool. I don't know. It's funny the way that we have public things like Wi-Fi names and license plates and things that...
You can open a little hobbit door and go into all of a sudden you're finding out things about people.
For example, Jeff... I don't have an example. I don't know what's so cool.
I've known you for a long time. You've gone through a series of fetishes or maybe...
Let's talk about that.
It's Rhode Island. Where's this going to go?
Are you on something new that I don't know about? Have you gone down a new rabbit hole into finding out questions?
What have I been into tracing my... I wish I could trace history.
For those of you who've listened before, I was at Dan's apartment years and years ago and he had taken all these individual pages out of titty mags and playboys and stuff and put them in a manila folder.
Rather than having all the magazines around, he just took out the pages that were potent.
Right. Anybody ever do that? That's probably a thing. Oh, God. Is it Marissa? Is your mom here again?
Yeah, we brought this girl's mom on stage last night and we talked about masturbation and it was touching go.
Oh, I'm good by accidents. That was accidental gold.
Anybody over... I would estimate 30. Any guy over 30 might know about that process where maybe you'd have to be over 35. The consolidation phase when you're like...
I've never met a guy who didn't have this problem. You tend to hoard pornography. You can't throw it away.
We get bored with it. You look at a picture of a certain person. See how inclusive I was there?
You can be like, holy shit, this is amazing. This is right up my alley. Okay, great.
But it's like any MP3 or anything, or a piece of chewing gum or anything, it's just a picture. It's not Erin McGathy at the end of the day.
Nice save. Nice save. It's not someone you can love who brings you steak salads when you're working on your pilot and who serves you tea when you have the sniffles.
And he cuddles up with you in the morning and he looks like a little baby strawberry cuddled up under your comforter.
She just gave you the business backstage about sneaking a nacho though.
Yeah, well, she cares about me. She wants me to live long enough and I'm 12 years older than her. Sometimes she'll sit me down and go, Dan, you're going to die.
You got to eat good. Is she the specter of death?
She puts her hand on my face and spreads her fingers in a weird way and says, you're going to die. You're going to die. She cares about me.
But even though the pornography loses its flavor, guys, I'm not going to say back me up on this. But if anyone who is the exception to this rule, I'd love to talk to you.
I can't throw it away. And now we've gone into this age where it's on your hard drive instead of under your bed in a box or something, but back before the Internet made all periodical pornography obsolete,
there were these magazines and if you were like me and you were in your 20s and you were like, okay, I'm going to get another one because everything loses its flavor, but you can't throw the old ones away.
What I'm describing is you found my manila folder full of consolidated porn.
The greatest hits.
Just out of sheer bulk, I got to clear the decks here, but I'm going to take the pages out that are most important and I'll put them all in a manila folder that was about this thick.
And Jeff was going through them. Oh, I'm sorry, this thick. I've held up my hands about two inches. Two inches thick.
Jeff found it and was going through it. It was like, what is this? That's my porn consolidation file.
When I moved from such and such to such and such, I consolidated to save U-Haul space.
And he's looking through it and he goes, geez, you got a thing for redheads, huh?
And I was like, I do? And then I looked through and they were all redheads.
Not an exciting story, but very interesting that I didn't see that. But then you started going down a road of mannequin legs, nylons on mannequin legs,
videos about women under the table popping their shoe off their heel.
Then you bought the real doll. We didn't see you for a year until you fucked her head off or something. What happened?
The head started to kind of tear at the neck.
That sounds violent. Anybody that works in television special effects will tell you that latex and silicon and stuff, that stuff degrades.
And then you see these ads for, oh, buy a fake woman made out of this stuff and you're like, ah, it's the perfect crime.
I'll take myself off the market. I'll spare all these poor women. I'll spare myself. Everyone will win.
But then six months later, it's like the heads falling off. It's awful. It's awful. It's really grody.
So where are you at now?
Because when do you throw that thing away?
If you keep a magazine, when do you throw away your $6,000 rubber woman?
You just roll her up in a rug and throw her off the 101 freeway.
Awful. Thank God I had an assistant by that time.
You made someone do it for you?
Yeah, yeah.
How did she or he dispose of it?
Ask her. I went on a road trip. That crate better be gone when I get back. It's depressing.
It came in a crate that's like a Stephen King thing.
Think of the alternatives. Is it supposed to come in a spider web? Is it supposed to come in a cocoon? Like a gremlin?
So where are you at now? What's floating in your boat now?
I don't know. I don't know.
You don't know that you can tell us or you don't know what it is?
Well, I'm in a relationship now. Number one, it's not so much about exploration. When you get the chance or have the urge, it's more of a shotgun thing.
You're just like, all right, I'll tell you whatever.
Also, because I'm in a relationship, it's really not the time to get that specific, like, contrary.
I don't know. It feels like the past is more, you're more allowed to be honest about the past.
Let's talk about yesterday.
Green-haired, middle-aged women I was into.
Oh, I thought you meant like...
Erin flyered for the show today.
She's so dedicated to my happiness that she printed up a thousand flyers for the show and just took them around to hand out to people.
Is anyone here because of the flyer?
Way to go.
That doesn't mean the flyering was ineffective. It only means that she forgot to put the showtime on them.
It was a very hasty, love-motivated job. It was less about engineering and more about an expression of wanting me to be happy.
I was told that the first flyer she handed to somebody, a girl goes, oh, that's great. What time is the show?
And I was like, oh, fuck.
What time is the show? That's what's weird. The answer is 5.30.
For those of you in podcast land, the sun is still streaming in through the Rhode Island skylights.
There's a cat lazily napping on the warm sidewalk.
There's eggs on the griddle, and we're doing a little comedy, a little conversative comedy before Bobcat Goldway comes on at 6 p.m.
7.30, I think.
This is the second time that we have found ourselves inadvertently opening for Bobcat, and I'm going to do some checking after the show.
Actually, I'm going to do some checking with Bob, who we know and love.
We don't know from Bob if the same woman at our agency is doing the booking of his shows, because if she's the one...
If the reason why every time we're in the same town as Bobcat is because she's double booking rooms, I'm going to kick her in the fucking forehead.
Because I don't know how funny you guys feel at 5.30, but you should just be thankful that I'm an alcoholic,
because no one should be this drunk at this time.
Backstage, you're feeling pretty cocky about yourself worth, and you're talking about your powers as a writer.
You're hulking out back there.
Yeah, what's different? What do you mean?
I have a sociopathic edge to me right now, don't I?
Can't you hear the kind of weird, cold, even temper to my voice?
Don't I seem like a little soulless and kind of into myself?
I'm an apologetic.
Let's just, as a barometer, I just want to do a little experiment just to see how different you are tonight from other nights.
I fucked your mama on the corner of her nose.
I fucked your mama and a tree grows out of her face where I fucked her.
That's how fertile my semen is.
It's pretty good, it's pretty good.
I think you're about there.
I don't know.
You know my mama's dead, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So's Erin, so's everybody's.
Big, big whoop-de-doo.
Maybe it's because you keep all your dead moms.
Maybe it's because you keep fucking people and trees grow out of their face.
All I do is express myself.
Maybe I wish I had a dead mom.
That's another way of saying it.
Mom, if you're listening, that doesn't mean I wish you were dead.
It just means I wish I had a dead mom.
It's two different things.
I mean, it's like...
Would you for rap purposes?
Because obviously you don't literally mean you're going to fuck my mother.
Are these people's mothers?
Would you ever rap about fucking your own mother?
Yeah, sure, I would.
I fucked my own mom. It was amazing.
Skies were hazing.
It was judgment day.
I fucked my own mom in an intimate way.
I curled up with her in a hamlet bed.
I said, oh baby, gonna kiss your head.
I would go down to your collar bone.
I'm gonna fuck you like I was alone.
I'm gonna jerk off on your tinny and your knee.
I'm gonna fuck you like I only fuck me.
I'm gonna roll you over and fuck you from behind.
I'm gonna fuck you pussy and see what I find.
It's a wedding ring. It's my dad's.
Aw shit, fucked you bad. I fucked you.
Fuck you.
Freudian style.
Yeah, that's pretty good. That's good.
Did you see, I don't know if you saw, between where I said, I forgot Oedipus's name.
Oh, is that what you started scramming with?
Yeah, I fucked it. I was like Orpheus? What is it?
Right.
That's a senior moment. I lost the word Oedipus.
You don't get more primal than the word Oedipus.
If you're talking about fucking your mom and you forget the word Oedipus,
you get a couple of scripts left in you before you need to...
Hunter the old Thompson.
Foster the Wallace.
Spalding your grave.
Hemming your way.
Yeah, what? What are the continued groans?
Wait, that guy killed himself.
Wait, so did that guy.
Three guys that killed...
Those are all right. What are you...
This next one better be a florist that lived forever.
That's another great of a killer.
How am I going to fucking freak out?
Spalding grace from Rhode Island.
Oh, nice. I knew that. Full circle. Thank you, sir.
Really, originally, he was born in Rhode Island. Did he live here?
I was so bummed out when he killed himself.
I mean, I get bummed out anytime anyone kills themselves,
but I don't know about most of the people.
And I really, really respect it, Spalding Gray,
and as I'm sure a lot of people here did.
It's such a fucking bummer.
Yeah, like these talented people.
A fan in the Brooklyn show came up to me
and gave me a David Foster Wallace novel
that I never knew David Foster Wallace wrote,
because I just thought that David Foster Wallace was an essayist.
I didn't really actually know that he was an amazing novelist.
Was that John Lennon?
He's not a great fan.
Infinite Jest or another man?
Yeah, Infinite Jest.
That's a big-ass book. That's like a phone book.
So I simultaneously learned that David Foster Wallace
had written a novel and that he had killed himself
in, I think, 2008.
I didn't know either of those facts.
I bought that book the day before he died.
It was really weird.
Haven't read it.
That one's especially tragic, because, I mean,
I think they're all probably, I don't know,
there's probably linkage to...
It's just so clearly kind of chemical,
like he was on meds and he had to go off of them
because they were causing him trouble,
and then he started to have troubles.
And it just sounds like...
When people kill themselves,
it's kind of by definition you think,
well, that's a voluntary act.
If someone gets hit by a subway train
or hit by lightning or gets cancer,
that's by definition an involuntary act.
But when people are kind of chemically troubled
and there's medication involved and then they can't...
It's weird because it's as involuntary,
it seems, as getting hit by a train.
Like if you caught this person on the right day
at the right time and gave them the right thing
in their pancake syrup or something,
you could keep them from making this decision
that was going to last forever.
Terrible, awful.
Hey, let's do the raffle!
Everybody look under your seats.
But we're giving away lithium tonight.
If you think you need it, please use it,
especially if you're an incredibly talented writer.
I will never do that, I don't think.
I'm not talented enough
and I'm too chicken shit and too...
I don't think I could never picture myself doing that.
But at the same time,
didn't Spalding Gray do it
because he was in a lot of physical pain?
Wasn't he fucked up?
Yeah, he was in an auto accident in Ireland
and he came back and he couldn't ever get over that.
Yeah, it was... I mean, that must be...
To repeat that in case we didn't pick that up,
he was in an auto accident in Ireland
and he never got over it,
meaning I'm assuming the pain never...
that was chronic and he couldn't handle it.
Or those people that they have,
like, what's the thing with your ears ringing?
Tintinabulation or whatever.
And it just drives them insane
that they can never get this sound out of their ears
and stuff like that.
That's madness. Jesus Christ.
Let's all fucking kill ourselves right now.
Would you guys do that?
We're on the...
I'm gonna count to three.
And it's on three, you guys.
It's not one, two, three, go.
It's one, two, bang.
Jeff, how would you do it?
Kill myself?
Not jump off something. That's crazy.
That's crazy. How would I do it?
All those people that jump off the Golden Gate Bridge,
which is enumerous.
Hey, Erin, can you hear me?
Yeah.
I think you remembered this number.
How many people jump off the Golden Gate Bridge every year?
It's something like...
I mean, the stat was weird.
It's eight every two weeks or something.
Yeah, okay. Eight every two weeks, she said.
So, like, four every week.
Some of them are doing it because, you know,
math was never...
So, a couple hundred...
Yeah, a couple hundred a year, one more?
Yeah, that's...
Wait, is that really 60 a month?
That can't be right.
Oh!
Wow, we...
I hope we picked that up.
Oh, I have an answer.
I think we're having to report this from the back
of a town hall on Rhode Island.
It's about a...
I have my answer.
I would firing squad.
I would do a fucking old school firing squad.
You see the footage of a firing squad,
and the guy's there, and he's got a cigarette,
and he says,
and then they go, bang!
He's fucking gone.
He's in heaven or hell the next moment.
It's not electric chair or pills
or the carbon monoxide in the garage.
I would absolutely...
And also, like, there'd be the drums,
and you'd be like,
I'm fucking doing this right.
This is some 17th century shit going down here.
That's how you do it.
I don't know, too much...
Too much suicide information.
And that's not even suicide.
I'm gonna try to play it off,
like you're gonna...
We know what you did.
I would make a time machine,
go back in time, and try to kill the king.
And then they would ask me
how I wanted to die,
and it would be death by...
Well, I'd be killing myself
by choosing to die by...
I wanted to kill myself.
I'm gonna go hang myself.
No, I'm not gonna go hang myself.
The show's not going that bad.
You're doing great.
I'm gonna go with hanging myself.
Really? That seems...
That's not so clean.
You dangle, you pee yourself, and then...
Yeah, but people do it just, like, sitting.
Like, they do it on accident
while jerking off,
which means that you can do it
kind of like...
If you can accidentally do it
while you're jerking off,
that means it must be pretty painless.
Yeah.
And the guy from in excess, right?
No.
No, no, no. I don't mean David Carradine
was in any excess.
I was adding to his list.
David Carradine did autoerotic asphyxiation,
we believe, and the lead singer of in excess.
But I wouldn't want to die with my dick in my hands.
Well, no, I'm not...
I'm not gonna jerk off.
I wouldn't even be hard.
You just blasted a dick in your hands
and a belt in your ear.
Those guys accidentally killed themselves
while jerking off.
We don't know that.
Yeah, we do, because their dicks were in their hands.
I'm saying that, therefore,
because you're able to do it
while having that much pleasure,
and so, obviously, those guys had everything
to live for in that moment,
they would have stopped if they had known,
oh, shit, I'm dying!
They would have stopped,
and the fact that they were dying to stop it,
which means, to me, perfect death.
Because it means
that you could actually sit
in a relaxed position
and arrange a thing around your neck,
a ligature.
Are you kids listening?
And do enough
with your own weight
that you could lose consciousness
and drift off into infinity.
But second to that, carbon monoxide,
for the same reason, because it happens on accident
when you don't stop it from happening.
So I think you could go to sleep.
I'm scared of pills, because I think you would...
You might...
So I go to the front and go,
this is a great show.
This is exactly...
Last night, they were fucking mamas,
and they were like,
everyone's gonna die tonight.
All right.
Before we get off this topic,
I'm just curious about it.
Who here has killed themselves?
Well, who here would do it
jumpin' off of somethin'?
There's a couple hands.
I'm not gonna make you come up and talk about it.
I just wanted to see, like, percentage.
There's four or five or six people.
And I think it's weird.
It's not like a bell curve, where it's like,
a bunch of people would do it by shooting themselves,
and then 10% of people want to burn to death.
It's almost like a weird, like, fractal...
I don't know, pattern.
Everyone's a little snowflake
of suicide.
Most importantly, I think nobody would kill themselves.
Let's make an agreement.
No suicides tonight.
I feel like legally I have to...
APPLAUSE
Legally, I have to say that real quick
before we part that topic.
Let's come up with a new reason
for all of us to live.
We all have our own reasons.
Let's find out...
Obama's inauguration.
This little community that we've created here tonight,
this audience has its own...
...organism. Let's create a brand new reason
to never kill ourselves.
To see Dan's new show.
To see Dan's new show is a good reason?
While you're getting stuff from the audience,
I'm creating a new reason myself, back here.
Dan has come back to the sandwich cart
to make himself a nice new vodka on the rocks.
Erin McGathy came backstage
while we were getting ready,
and she was very excited because she was like,
hey, guys, Erin from last night
at the show outside of Boston is here.
They were like, oh, yeah, cool, she was cool.
I said, oh, the black girl, right?
She's like, yeah.
I'm like, is that why you're telling us?
Is that why that's interesting?
And she was like, yeah, as a black Erin.
I've never met a black Erin before.
Black Erin.
Yeah, black Erin, get up here, would you?
MUSIC
It proves that race is an artificial construct.
There's a black Erin.
Are you okay coming up here?
You're such a sweetheart.
I met last night in
that place that's not Boston, Somerville.
You look kind of dressed like a black Erin.
I could see Erin McGathy if she were black,
dressed like we like that.
It's an Erin outfit, I didn't even, yeah.
She got little black tights on and stuff like that.
I'm so obsessed with race, I didn't even, yeah.
You were here, you were in Somerville,
and you came, you were with this dude
that, is he here tonight?
He's here, yeah.
Oh, okay, because I thought, didn't you say,
what was your name, sir?
Matt.
I remember having a conversation about this,
I was trying to figure out what your MO was,
weren't you like,
you're not from any of these places, are you?
No, I'm from Colorado.
Colorado.
You're staying with your friend Matt
for the Somerville show.
Well, Matt's from Vermont.
We...
We decided to
come to Boston
for the Somerville show,
and since Rhode Island is close,
we decided to come down here too.
And then, but then,
I'm wrong saying,
are you going to a third show too?
I'm going to Denver too. Right, because that's in Colorado
where you're from. Yes, yes.
Okay, that's where the confusion is,
because that's where I was saying, oh, is Matt
going to be there too, and you're like, no,
because Matt's from around here. Right.
All right, all right, it's not that intriguing.
I thought I would stumble on
a story like Spree or something.
Like, you guys were...
There was a trail of receipts.
We could turn you in.
Erin was saying that there was some interesting story
to why your name is Erin. Is that true?
Oh, well, I was just mentioning
in Freakonomics,
I told Erin that
there's a chapter about naming children.
How...
It's harder
to get a job
when your name is something like, you know,
something more ethnic sounding.
And my mother made sure
that all of her children's names
were neutral sounding,
or sounded, you know,
she wanted to make sure that we'd be able to
at least get her foot in the door.
Has that worked out for you? What do you do for a living?
I'm a professional letitia.
I'm a...
Right now, I'm a student.
Okay, what do you study?
I'm studying web design and computer programming.
Oh, fantastic, so yeah.
Your less ethnic name
has given you that foot in the door?
I think it's a lot of things.
And I honestly,
I can't tell because
I've lived my entire life
with being an Erin,
and...
Yeah.
There are some pretty crazy names, though.
My friend had...
I went to school with a girl named Exquisita,
which is awesome. Wow.
Wow.
It kind of brings up a weird
and probably uncomfortable topic, though.
The idea that, like,
it comes up over and over again.
The idea of things that are somehow...
like, that we identify as cultural,
and then the things that, like,
you know, Bill Cosby rails against.
Like, there are two sides of this spectrum where...
And then,
you can put yourself in any shoes,
or I can anyway, as a weird,
mixed up white guy.
Like, I can't find a place where I'm comfortable
going, oh, that's the empirical fact,
because, like, there are people
who would go, well, don't...
don't assimilate, and then there's a...
like, well, what are you assimilating?
Like, what...
It's all so fucking confusing,
because it all starts with
co-opting humanity,
bringing people over,
giving them a job they didn't ask for,
for far below their pay grade,
denying them,
you know, some staples,
and literacy, etc.
And then, at some point, changing our mind about it,
which is a great, great, great
turn of events.
But, and then,
now all this,
like, now,
a complexion being linked
to empirical realities,
demographically,
like,
wealth distribution and things like that,
but it being conveniently racist
to point out any correlations
that are unpleasure,
a Republican gets to go,
what do you mean? I thought everyone was equal.
What do you mean he's black, therefore he's poor?
What are you, a racist?
And then, like, it's...
it's awfully...
it almost seems like only the bad guys win
as long as we keep staying confused about all of it.
As long as we keep just kind of, like,
worrying about the fact that we're different.
And as it seems like that's the only
late motif, that's it,
and that that's the only empirical truth
that people kind of want poor people
to just be unsure about everything
that unites them.
BAM!
APPLAUSE
Oh.
I fucked your black mama.
I did it with my white dick.
So what?
I didn't care. I'm not racist.
I united humanity with my dick.
Black mama.
I don't know. Aaron, do you have any opinions
about any of this stuff? I do.
All right.
APPLAUSE
Can you do them in two, four time?
Or do you want to...
Yeah, let's let it rip.
Do you want to beat?
No.
LAUGHTER
It's actually one of the reasons
I really like your show.
I love this podcast is because
you have difficult
conversations about things like that.
It sort of feels like a
journal, you know, like
Dear Diary or something like that.
It definitely feels more like a journal
than, like, say, a screen player
or a TV show, something with structure.
LAUGHTER
That has a point to it.
But, I mean, it's important
to have difficult conversations
because whenever you don't talk about things,
then it doesn't make the things go away.
Exactly. Like, every single
problem can be solved.
I mean, okay.
Like, we've been a human race
for quite a while, and I'm sure
that there were times
when there were bigger problems
than lack of communication.
Like, people just stabbing you
and fucking the stab-hole,
like, because you were, like,
from somewhere else.
I'm sure there was, like, shit
just happening right outside your front door
that had to be dealt with before
can be solved through people
speaking what's in their head, honestly.
And letting it, like,
because how far
does a person
who is our modern definition of racist,
how far is that person
going to be able to state their case
before solutions
start cropping up even to his own fucking brain?
Or hers?
LAUGHTER
Women can be racist. It's okay, ladies.
And it's, like,
people communicating about that.
And that's what makes me
sound to some people
like, incredibly jaded and cynical,
even though the weird, ironic truth
is that I'm so optimistic because
what I believe is that people,
once you start babbling,
like, the inevitable result
is that shit gets, like,
that you thought was important, stops being important.
Shit that you thought was
a monster stops being,
turns out to be your own reflection
or, like, your dad's ghost or something.
And the reality just becomes, like,
everyone looks so simple,
like, that we're on a playground again,
going, oh, I don't want to be alone.
If I had to choose anything,
I'd just choose to be around other people.
Let's work the rest out
as we have to.
But, yeah, that's so, I agree.
I agree that my podcast is great.
LAUGHTER
APPLAUSE
I have a question.
I mean, because I'm asking this
ignorantly, because you're black
and you're a woman, what's more
pervasive for you, racism in your life
or sexism?
What do you feel is the more prevalent
or the most, like,
you get the most dominated by?
You can ask a more hypothetical sci-fi sense.
Like, if you got to have one button
on your wrist that could make you switch,
like, but switch back
any time you wanted, like,
would you rather have a button
that turns you into a dude
whenever you wanted or a button
that made you white whenever you wanted?
I just made that up.
LAUGHTER
And you get to change back any time.
It's not about not liking yourself.
It's just about the social obstacles
or whatever kind of inconveniences.
Um...
I think that
I've probably never, ever
wanted to be a man.
I've never even considered it.
I think there was...
You know, every kid
has that moment in their life
when they... I haven't either, Erin.
I've never wanted this.
I didn't ask for it.
It's flapping around down there.
It seems very impractical.
I have nipples.
Sorry, go ahead.
You feel good.
It's okay.
I grew up in the suburbs
and I grew up around everybody.
Everybody else was white around me
and I think whenever I was a kid
I really didn't realize...
It's not that I wanted to be white.
I think that I just didn't realize I was black.
And so whenever I did realize I was black,
I was like, oh, well,
I don't want to be different.
Yeah, I had a lot of friends growing up
when I was in Milwaukee Public School.
When I was definitely in grade school,
it was like...
I think Howard Stern said the same thing
in his little movie that I saw.
He illustrated the same thing.
I was actually a lone little
white drop in a public school
see that I didn't really perceive
until later.
I have little photos of me
in graduation ceremonies
and it's like my head in a sea
of things that I now distinguish
but that I didn't instinctively do
back then.
We find it hard to believe as a racially obsessed society
that it actually is an artificial construct
but it is so much more artificial
than so many more real things
that we've actually also been hypnotized
to not pay attention to
that are more real.
Like poverty and wealth
and how that doesn't make you a good or a bad person.
We are very convinced
that poor people are their own fault.
That when you wake up poor, you're a piece of shit,
you did something wrong.
We're also very convinced that when you get sick,
When you're in a wheelchair, I get fucking
like I go into crisis mode
like my goal is to
figure out how to avoid
this poor person who probably
would be into talking about
what is wrong and what happened
and how hard it is and all this stuff
but all I can think about
through after school specials
and my own narcissism is like
fuck that guy, he's just gotta be a living ghost
or that's what's best for both of us
and that's way more real
in your skin
because there's a lot of
anyways, I keep sounding
like I'm running for something, it's stupid
but
I'm probably
flawfully fascinated
with this stuff
and I
what was our point, what were we on?
I derailed that, I derailed it.
We're talking about sexism, racism,
I mean sexism seems more real
because women are
chemically different from men, they literally
have no penis
from birth
there's an actual hole where the penis
goes on a man
and there's
this is true, no it's true
I'm just shaking my head back here
and
as an extension of sexism
then homophobia is actually a little more real
even though there's a huge difference
between homophobia and racism
but a homosexual
can walk around
and get a job and hang out
and if they choose to
they can never have anyone
or even themselves be conscious of the thing
that makes them different
inside
women can't, they can't escape
their gender
and to the extent that we keep paying attention
to race, people can't escape their race
what's my point?
I don't know
there's gotta be a card game we can make out of this
or
what do we, I think
is the problem solving itself?
we're getting, I noticed that
20 year olds are bored with
things that used to make
me laugh when I was 20
race used to be a much hotter
button when you mashed it as a comedy
writer, I can see
myself becoming antiquated
in writer's rooms, I can see
people like Donald Glover
going like, yeah
it's not that funny and it's not
indignant or anything, it's just getting
hackier and hackier to
mash those buttons
which I think is a good sign
is everything fading
is everything getting better?
sure
I think that things
move in cycles honestly
and it's really difficult to tell
especially with the recent history
of race in this country
I do think that
the problem with
people ignoring it and getting
bored with it is that they still haven't dealt
with the actual issue
I mean people
the actual issue is legacy of a thing that
actually factors into
class, right?
class, it's privilege
it's
just basically
how we see each other, I mean
I think sometimes people think
racism is bad but
basically we don't
understand why racism
is bad or why
sexism is bad
we
are focusing so much as a society
on pinpointing
little individual things that people are
just labeling, oh this is
PC, now I have to be PC
we're actually
like
fucking up the problem by going
okay, here's the seminar that the
legal department can use to avoid legal
liability, we're gonna teach all of you
racist sexists how to seem
less racist than sexists in the workplace
these are the things you're not allowed to say at the water
cooler in order to keep Sony from getting sued
and so this guy
who might become less racist or
sexist watches the video and goes
okay I can't say nice tits
and all he knows is that he can't
say it, he doesn't know
why, he doesn't know
that it might get him laid more
for instance to not say it
he doesn't know
that humanity is
an individual thing, he's not getting that from
a sexual harassment seminar
yeah, alright
let's do something
with Aaron that
that's both racist
and sexist
let's do
a little
I don't want to be too trite but I want to do
one of our little movies or TV shows
Jeff, I want to do like a little
I like that we've started doing this on the road
like
Aaron what's your
what's your big ambition, what do you want to do
like pie in the sky
dream gig
I would love to do something creative that
changes a lot of people
or affects a lot of people's lives
and what are you doing now to pay your rent
I work
I'm an Annie and I work at Banana Republic
two groups
gave me some vocal support
or one very specific person
I think Aaron should come up
white Aaron should come up and play black Aaron though
anything
Erin McGathy to the stage
in the role of a lifetime
okay
we're going to test your range right now Aaron
Erin McGathy
is going to win a Tony
for her portrayal
of black Aaron
Erin McGathy everybody
Aaron was also a nanny yes it's true
both Aaron's were nannies
you still are nannying
new Aaron
alright so
alright she's a nanny
she's worked at Banana Republic
and her mission is to
create things for people
just create things that will
change people's attitudes
change their minds
change your attitudes, change your minds
maybe open their minds
art or literature
I love to write
I love to draw
I want to be a graphic designer or web designer
just kind of creativity all across the board
that's great
that's a great aspiration
oh it's a new movie
it's called
black Aaron
transparent soul
transparent heart, soul
sounds racist
oh
dreams and peace
hey world
I'm going to work on changing you today
so what you're black
what I'm black
this is the moment when I realized I was black
I
what are you doing downstairs
Aaron it's your mother
making pancakes
honey leave her alone
she's going through a rough time right now
what do you mean she's my little girl
she just found out she was black
we should have told her a long time ago
oh god
you're going to have to go have one of those talks
that mothers give to their
similarly raced children
alright I suppose this is the bed I made
Aaron
yes mom
your father told me about something that happened today
yeah
I guess it's
time to tell you about a world
that I tried to shield you from
by giving you a neutral name
I don't understand my name is Aaron
everyone named Aaron
is a mousy
or average looking white girl
ladies I'm sorry to interrupt
can I come in for a second
I feel like I've been a bad husband and father
to both of you and I'll tell you why
there's something I've been meaning to tell you both for a long time
you're both women
what
oh no that's fine
that's fine I'm fine with that
I'm fine with that
I feel like you should know that
mom I really hate dad
your father is an award winning
obstetrician
who's
given special accolades
for his ability to
notice gender
honey honey oh my god
the obstetrician society is called
I won the golden fetus
so go back to what you were doing
I have to go back out
and destroy creativity
in the world
did you hear that
he just said
that's just his way
the important thing is to love one another
I gave you a mousy
white girl's name because
I didn't want you to be one thing or the other
I wanted you to feel comfortable
in a world that
my dream is that these
problems that we're subjecting each other to
they'll just go away
alright that's very nice
good luck on your final exams
thank you mom
Matt no
I just want to know
if you still want to go to the snowball dance with me
Matt I have to focus
I mean if I'm going to change the world
with art or music
or graphic design
or something else or speech or something
first of all I'm going to have to spend some time
focusing and then I'm going to have to
do it
that wasn't a note Erin you're doing fine
I'm sorry
I thought I was going to get a big laugh
and I didn't I'm just going to get it she's the best
alright
well that's what I wanted to talk to you about
I have the answers to this final exam
you wouldn't even have to study
just copy off of me
and then and then you can focus
on being creative
or my name's not
Phil Dorfman
it's not it's Matt
Matt yeah Matt right
so I
I couldn't possibly trust you
look man
hello son I'm sorry
to bother you at school your name is actually
Matt I should have told you that a long time ago
oh
sorry go back to go back to what you're go back
to harassing that girl over there
listen she's black
hey I don't care
I've never had a reason to care
and I'm not going to have one today
okay so just copy off of me
and then you have time to be creative
and we could be boyfriend and girlfriend
and the world could be free of race
we could have a little beige baby
well I
gosh there's so many
so many things running through my mind
nine months later
push daughter push
push anybody else
anybody else
nobody in this town has won more awards
for delivering babies
than me
I'm a three-time golden baby award winner
and I will deliver
your baby
oh my god
he's coming up
it's hideous
don't mix the races
okay well
that went differently than
transparent heart everybody
transparent heart
that did not
that
that was not the right
okay let's compare
notes my plan
my thought was that Phil
slash Matt would
who loved Erin regardless of her race
was going to have her copy off of his test
for his own convenience
his own visceral convenience
and then they were going to get caught by a teacher
and then he was going to throw her
under the bus and like
kind of like play the race card
the improv scene we were going to do
well I'm a fucking genius
I was like writing ahead
I certainly didn't intend to cut to the birthing
of a minotaur
which seemed like
it was like a cautionary tale against misogyny
what did we create
I'm saying we haven't figured out our problems
is this cast a
stark
a trenchant social commentary on the state of things
now
it's making us look at ourselves the way we actually
are the darker version of ourselves
as we actually are right now
I have to admit
I'm white Erin
definitely
in my head about playing
what is this look on your face
definitely in my head about playing black Erin
because when you're playing a character
you're like how is this character different
from me
but we're the same
we have the same sensibility
what's your take away from our little tale
what do we do right
what do we do wrong
oh black Erin
I thought it was
I thought it was great
alright
you know why
as much as you as a dominant white male
want to control the outcome of things
especially involving women
in communication
sometimes life takes its own course
only I as a white man know how to solve racism
and sexism
it is something I have been born with the equipment
to do
I was really excited Dan
that you got to show everyone what your newest fetish is
which is we pretend
that he's being born
from me
it's really exciting
alright well let's thank new human Erin
for coming up here
thank you
I'm so sorry
for everything
thank you
I hope we can heal the scarred world
isn't she lovely
so sweet heart
the big question is
if we see her in Colorado
then we didn't totally blow that
yeah that's the good metric yeah
hopefully she won't get the flu and send us the wrong signal
it'll be like a Romeo and Juliet thing
is Erin out in the audience
and then she's not and we're like
we really fucked up and then we kill ourselves
and then she shows up late and she's like
they killed themselves and then she kills herself
how did Jeff organize a firing squad
that quickly
Dan
why does Dan's dicks in his hand
I mean that's
that's an old
that's cross signal
was this a group suicide
or a ritualistic murder
slash orgy
I would jump off a bridge
oh all right
yeah there's a couple people who would
it's crazy
I don't know if it's
I don't know if I recommend watching that documentary or not
the bridge
I don't know if it's really a documentary
it feels ghoulish and freak
freak showish
I think the reason you're watching it
is because you want to watch people jump off the golden gate bridge
it should be called yes you get to see people die
yeah
it's not what you're watching
it's such the sad music and it shows people crying
on the golden gate bridge and then it just ends with
this repetitive just people just
plummeting and they just shot it
and so the whole time you're going you fucking shot it
come on this isn't journalism
and you shot it you could have run up and stopped them
but they just filmed people jumping off
shoot a bottle rocket at them
because they're shooting it from way down below
and the thing that was the clincher was like
okay because they kept interviewing this
one guy and I was like
this guy's family
I was like they kept talking about him and coming back to him
and I was like there's nothing building here
I'm not learning anything new
if I find out that he just jumped off the bridge
in the coolest way
if they just got the best shot of him
committing suicide then I'm fucking
that's the final word on this thing
and yeah I should go out
I was like why did I watch that
I was really like it really
it really fucked me up for a whole day
suicide's not the answer rap
okay
coming up
yo
emcee lights
coming at you
oh yeah it's about to get positive
don't do it don't take it all
your mom and your dad gave you so much to call upon
study your math
don't drown yourself in the bath
if you want to strangle yourself
do it while you're jerking off
you might like it
and then stop doing it
and then you came harder
life
road island
may I ask something
this is a really self focused question
from you
earlier when you were asking
Dan about his fetishes
I just want to ask the audience
this is an honest question
and I will take whatever answer you give me
and this is not a leading question
I'm honestly asking you
because I'm sitting in the back
when Jeff was really drilling
Dan about what his new fetishes are
should I feel bad about that
should I
I was just fucking with him
no I know
but it felt
when I was sitting back there
is Jeff saying
in a very subtle way
that he doesn't respect our relationship
or is that okay
okay thank you
that's why I asked
I think the worst thing you can say about Jeff
is that he was trying to instigate us breaking up
by creating
a great podcast entertainment
I wouldn't put him past that
but he's not a gun
I'm not trying to bring the mood down
I was trying to shoot two arrows
well I'll see you guys at D&D
alright goodbye baby
speaking of D&D we should probably bring Spencer up right now right
there
oh yeah
his bag of holding
he does say bag of holding
again for those of you just joining us for the first time
this is Spencer our Dungeon Master
who's been traveling with us
where are Cory and Dave
respectively in the audience
where are they
they don't have to be in the audience
are you guys both back there
I was wondering
am I face blind
or is this guy either Cory or Dave
this is random guy
that's how weird
I have borderline prozopagnosia
I just realized we're going really late
what oh shit is bobcat
bobcat just called me
I just realized when do we have to get out of here
five minutes
two minutes speed round
I didn't know this was a bullet train show
that's totally my fault
bad calm trolling
it's a bummer
we're sad
we have to get out of here to load out
so that bobcat can load his audience in
so we're going to put it right to the limit here
so Spencer
get us up to date
you guys wake up you're inside of a giant beast
good job
I kill the beast
no oh shit
describe this beast
what are we looking at here Spencer
you wake up in the wreckage of a ship
it seems to be ripped asunder
although you're in a rather dark place
there seems to be some sort of ambient
light shining through
you can see the red walls of wherever
you're in through the cracks in the ship
go
I can see the what
you can see the red walls outside of your ship
you're obviously in some sort of red cavern
we got yeah we got
we got swallowed by an infinifish
that's what I was saying
for some of these guys the Boston episode
has an aired like it ended with
some weird flashback to a nursery
around my mom said about something called an infinifish
and then the ship got impacted
by a huge thing now we're waking up inside
so we're in the belly of the whale right now
you might just be
alright
well we also
learned in Brooklyn that ray of frost
it's the shittiest spell you have
ray of frost is like
go get me some ice
okay
are there squirrels or small woodland craters
I can summon inside this infinifish
no they're not
you could maybe summon an epiglottis
I
we can walk out into this
what is this
what are we looking at if we walk outside into this
enclosure exiting the
wreckage of the ship you see that you're at a bottom
of a great red pit
inky blackness stretches onward ahead of you
you can see globules
studded on the walls full of a
green glowing fluid
it casts light throughout the room
you see three white clothed figures
they approach from the north
I
yell out
hey
they slowly
approach silently
I tried everything I could
use your diplomacy talk to these guys
alright
I step forward hands raised up
to indicate
no weapons in them
no spells being cast
and I
I kind of do like a fancy bow
like I'm a fancy person
and then I
and I walk to them very gently
very gently and very diplomatically
they approach
I see you're a fancy gentleman
well
this is no place for your kind
we have a dwelling not far from here
you'd have to stick close
it's quite dangerous
who are you
we were swallowed by the infinite fish
many moons ago
we're trying to make the best of it
okay
well I think you probably good people to
go with in the short term
can my friends come
yeah alright guys
we should follow these guys
they've been here for many moons
we should go find people that know how to get out of here
well I mean
it's an infinite fish
they all left
of course yeah that's flawed logic
I say we follow them
especially since it's going to be a two minute episode
we're already over time right now
so we follow them
cliffhanger
I'm starting Rhode Island
alright Dan
we talked about killing ourselves
Aaron thought I was trying to
destroy your relationship
I'm sorry
they're hugging and making up
light or black
yellow or brown
harm a town
I've come to a place
called road it's an island
in the place that you've never known
it's a magical realm
where all your dreams can come true
and be owned
down in harm a town
saw your mama
on the street
and I came on her feet
she's a whore that cannot be beat
I fucked your mama
in harm a town
and I wanna fuck your mama again
I'll give her dollars
number and ten
that's all she's worth
she's a worthless person to me
your mama's harm a town
so sorry
it's hard to improvise lyrics
and a lot of times it results in talking about
fucking your mama
but it's not a real mama
it's just the mama
of America
mama of America
fifty states wide mama
district of Colombia
is your pussy I fucked America
President Obama you hear
I'm gonna fuck your country
without fear
I'm gonna take ownership and thrust
from my constitution
right to fuck you
over again
fuck your mama
fuck your country
fuck all the governments
and all the politicians
fuck all the police
fuck everything
thank you for coming to harm a town everyone
harm a town
Spencer Crittenden
Black Aaron
Aaron's of all colors and creeds
I'm Jeff Davis
one more time for the mayor
Dan Harmon
CBS pilot in harm a town
harm a town
everybody fuck your mama
town everybody
work in harm a town
fake stage dives
like kind of
fake world shittiest
stage dive
alright you know
everybody we're all
taking the party over to whiskey republic
you want to come over there there's merchandise for sale
we'll hang out with science stuff and you can
we'll get Dan a real stage float when we go over there
whiskey republic everybody
thanks again we love you all
and anybody that came from Somerville by request
like the dentist is the favorite you know who you are
you'll get whatever special treatment
we can afford to give you emotionally
physically anything
I'm yours for the evening
music